Added data-types.md file in the kotlin concept folder (#1404)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/data-types/data-types.md

```

The `Boolean` data type can be used to determine the outcome of `if ... then` statements:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val condition: Boolean = true

    if (condition) {
        // write a code that you want to execute if the variable is given as true 
    } else {
        // write a code for the false variable 
    }
}
```

### Byte

A `Byte` is a data type that is similar to an integer data type, but it is only 8 bits in size, whereas an integer can be a different size depending on the system. A byte can hold values from -128 to 127.

A `Byte` is a way to represent a small whole number. It is commonly used to store small pieces of data, such as characters in a text file or colors in an image.

Here is an example of how to declare a `Byte` variable in Kotlin:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Byte = 50
    val b: Byte = 25
    val c: Byte = a + b as Byte
    print(c)

}
```

The output will be:

```
75
```

The range of the `Byte` data type is -128 to 127. Calculations that exceed this range will produce unexpected results:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Byte = 120
    val b: Byte = 120
    val c: Byte = a + b as Byte
    print(c)
}
```

> Here the output will be:

Reviewer: There need to be line breaks before and after the code blocks.

Author: got it

Author: fixed it @SSwiniarski

fun main(){

val a: Double = 16.0
val b: Double = sqrt(a)
val c: Double = a.pow(2)

println("The square root of $a is $b.")
println("$a raised to the power of 2 is $c.")

}
```

The output will be:

```
The square root of 16.0 is 4.0.
16.0 raised to the power of 2 is 256.0.
```

### Float

In Kotlin, the `Float` data type represents a 32-bit floating-point number. It is a primitive data type that can hold values with a fractional component, such as 3.14 or 0.5.

Here is an example of how to declare a Float variable in Kotlin:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Float = 3.14f
    val b: Float = 2.71f
    val c: Float = a * b as Float
    print(c)

}
```

The output will be :

```
8.5094
```
In this example, the c variable will be assigned the value 8.5014, which is the result of 3.14 * 2.71.

### Int

In Kotlin, the `Int` data type represents a 32-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -2147483648 to 2147483647.

Here is an example of how to declare an `Int` variable in Kotlin:

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val a: Int = 50
    val b: Int = 25
    val c: Int = a + b
    print(c)
}
```

The output of the above code will be:

> ```

Reviewer: There needs to be a line break here.

Author: done

75
```

### Long 

In Kotlin, the `Long` data type represents a 64-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807.

Here is an example of how to declare a `Long` variable in Kotlin:

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val a: Long = 500000000
    val b: Long = 250000000
    val c: Long = a + b
    print(c)
}
```

> The output for the above code will be :

Reviewer: There need to be line breaks before and after code blocks.

Author: yep I fixed them in the rest of the code too

```
750000000
```
In this example, the c variable will be assigned the value 750000000, which is the result of 500000000 + 250000000.

### Short

In Kotlin, the `Short` data type represents a 16-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -32768 to 32767.

Here is an example of how to declare a `Short` variable in Kotlin:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Short = 50
    val b: Short = 25
    val c: Short = (a + b).toShort()
    print(c)
}
```

> The output for the above code will be:

Reviewer: There need to be line breaks before and after code blocks.

-Arrays 
-String 
-Any
-Nothing 
-Unit 

### Arrays

In Kotlin, an `Array` is a data structure that stores a fixed-size collection of elements of the same data type. Arrays are non-primitive data types, which means they are derived from primitive data types or other non-primitive data types.

To declare an `Array` in Kotlin, you can use the `arrayOf()` function and specify the elements of the array within the parentheses. For example:

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val numbers: Array<Int> = arrayOf(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
}
```

In this example, the `numbers` variable is an array of integers that contains the values 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. The type of the array is specified using the `Array<Int>` syntax, which indicates that the array contains elements of the `Int` type.

If you want to know how to print the array then you can check [Arrays]

### String 

In Kotlin, a `String` is a data type that represents a sequence of characters. You can use a string to store and manipulate text in your program.

Here is an example of how to declare and initialize a string in Kotlin:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val message: String = "Hello, World!"
    print(message)
}
```

> The output for the above code will be :

Reviewer: There need to be line breaks before and after code blocks.

```
Hello, World!
```
Strings are also [immutable](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/native-immutability.html) in Kotlin.

You can use the '+' operator to concatenate strings, or the trim() function to remove leading and trailing whitespace from a string. For example:

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val greeting: String = "Hello, "
    val name: String = "John"
    val fullMessage: String = greeting + name
    println(fullMessage.trim()) 
}
```

> The output for the above code will be :

Reviewer: There need to be line breaks before and after code blocks.

```
Hello, John
```

### Any 

In Kotlin, the `Any` type is a supertype of all types in the language. It represents a general type that can hold any value.

Here is an example of how to declare a variable of type `Any` in Kotlin:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val value: Any = 100
    val value2: Any = "Hello, World!"
    println(value)
    println(value2)
}
```
  
The output for the above code will be :

> ```

Reviewer: There need to be line breaks before and after code blocks.

100
Hello, World!
```

### Nothing

In Kotlin, the `Nothing` type is a special type that represents the absence of a value. It is a subtype of all types in the language and cannot be instantiated.

The `Nothing` type is used to indicate that a function never returns a value. For example, a function that throws an exception or terminates the program will have a return type of `Nothing`.

Here is an example of a function that has a return type of `Nothing`:

```kotlin
fun error(): Nothing {
    throw IllegalStateException("An error occurred.")
}
```

In the above, the `error()` function throws an exception and does not return a value. Therefore, its return type is `Nothing`.

###Unit 

In Kotlin, the `Unit` type represents the absence of a value, similar to the `void` type in other programming languages. It is a special type that is used to indicate that a function does not return a value.

The `Unit` type can be used to specify that a function has a return type of `Unit` when it is not possible to infer the return type from the function's body. For example:

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    
}
fun doSomething(): Unit {
    // perform some action that you want to do
}
```

> In the above example, the doSomething() function performs an action and does not return a value. Therefore, its return type is `Unit`.

Reviewer: There need to be line breaks before and after code blocks.

---
Title: 'Data-Types'
Description: 'In Kotlin, a data type is a classification of types of values that can be stored and manipulated in a program.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Primitive Data-Type'
  - 'Non Primitive Data-Type'

>   

Reviewer: Remove the extra line break in the metadata.

Reviewer: @dakshdeepHERE: You marked this resolved without addressing the issue.

Author: Done I thought I was suppose to remove the extra line below this meta data. Sorry.

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-Kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> A data type is a classification of types of data that determine the possible values and operations that can be performed on that data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Data types** are a classification of types of data that determine the possible values and operations that can be performed on that data.
```

> ## Type of Data-Types 

Reviewer: Let's remove this header.

Author: Which header you want me to remove ?

Reviewer: @dakshdeepHERE: The header "Type of Data Types"

Author: @SSwiniarski done 👍🏻

> Kotlin has both primitive and non-primitive data type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kotlin has both primitive and non-primitive data types.
```

> 1. Primitive Data types

Reviewer: Remove the list, it is redundant with the introductory sentence.

Reviewer: @dakshdeepHERE You marked this resolved without addressing the issue.

Author: Oh yes I thought I removed the list sorry.

Author: done removed them 👍🏻 @SSwiniarski

2. Non-primitive Data types 

## Primitive Data-type

> We will now discuss different types of primitive data-types in kotlin :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are the following different types of primitive data types in Kotlin:
```

> - **Boolean**

Reviewer: Remove the bold from the items in this list.

- **Byte**
- **Char**
- **Double**
- **Float**
- **Int**
- **Long**
- **Short**

> # Boolean 

Reviewer: Two things that apply to all the following:

1. There should only be one line break before and after headers and code blocks.
2. The sub heads should be preceded by three hash marks, by using only one, you're styling these as &lt;h1&gt;

> In Kotlin, the Boolean data type represents a **true** or **false** value. It is a primitive data type and can hold only one of the two possible values: **true** or **false**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Boolean` is a primitive data type and can hold only one of the two possible values: `true` or `false`.
```

> We usually use Boolean when we are writing loops or functions so we can determine the outcome of true or false statements.

Reviewer: We can delete this sentence.

> Here is an example of how to declare a **Boolean** variable in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare a `Boolean` variable in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin
val isTrue: Boolean = true
val isFalse: Boolean = false
// here we can see that if a variable is wrong we can written false and true if its right
```

> We can further use boolean data type to determine the outcome of our for loops. Lets try to learn it by a code sample :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Boolean` data type can be used to determine the outcome of `if ... then` statements:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val condition: Boolean = true

    if (condition) {
        // write a code that you want to execute if the variable is given as true 
    } else {
        // write a code for the false variable 
    }
}
```

# Byte

> A **Byte** is a data type that represents an 8-bit integer. It is similar to an integer data type, but it is only 8 bits in size, whereas an integer can be a different size depending on the system. A byte can hold values from -128 to 127.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Byte` is a data type that is similar to an integer data type, but it is only 8 bits in size, whereas an integer can be a different size depending on the system. A byte can hold values from -128 to 127.
```

> In simple terms, a byte is a way to represent a small whole number using a computer. It is commonly used to store small pieces of data, such as characters in a text file or colors in an image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Byte` is a way to represent a small whole number. It is commonly used to store small pieces of data, such as characters in a text file or colors in an image.
```

> Here is an example of how to declare a **Byte** variable in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare a `Byte` variable in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Byte = 50
    val b: Byte = 25
    val c: Byte = a + b as Byte
    print(c)

}
```

> **Output** will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be:
```

```
75
```

> But before using the byte data type make sure you remember the range of the byte data type i.e. -128 to 127.But what if we still cross the range and we are printing Byte then we can check it out with a code example :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The range of the `Byte` data type is -128 to 127. Calculations that exceed this range will produce unexpected results:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Byte = 120
    val b: Byte = 120
    val c: Byte = a + b as Byte
    print(c)
}
```

> so here **output** will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the output will be:
```

```
-88

> //In this example, the value of c will be -88, because the result of 120 + 120 is 240, which exceeds the valid range for a Byte type.

Reviewer: Output code blocks should not have comments.

```

# Char

> In Kotlin, the **Char** data type represents a single Unicode character. It is a primitive data type that can hold any character from the Unicode character set, which includes letters, digits, symbols, and special characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Char` data type represents a primitive data type that can hold any character from the Unicode character set, which includes letters, digits, symbols, and special characters.
```

> Here is an example of how to declare a **Char** variable in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare a `Char` variable in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val ch: Char = 'A'
    print(ch)
}
```

> **Output** will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be:
```

```
A
```

> In the above example, the ch variable is assigned the value 'A', which is a character from the Unicode character set.

Reviewer: This sentence is redundant and can be removed.

# Double 

> In Kotlin, the **Double** data type represents a 64-bit floating-point number. It is a primitive data type that can hold values with a fractional component, such as 3.14 or 0.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Double` data type represents a 64-bit floating-point number. It is a primitive data type that can hold values with a fractional component, such as 3.14 or 0.5.
```

> Here is an example of how to declare a **Double** variable in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare a `Double` variable in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val a: Double = 3.14
    val b: Double = 2.71
    val c: Double = a * b as Double 
    print(c)
}
```

> The **Output** of the above code will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of the above code will be:
```

```
8.5094
```
In this example, the c variable will be assigned the value 8.5014, which is the result of 3.14 * 2.71.

> We can also use the Double data type to perform more advanced operations, such as calculating the square root of a number or raising a number to a power in kotlin. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Double` data type can be used to perform more advanced operations, such as calculating the square root of a number or raising a number to a power in Kotlin. For example:
```

```kotlin

import kotlin.math.sqrt
import kotlin.math.pow
fun main(){

val a: Double = 16.0
val b: Double = sqrt(a)
val c: Double = a.pow(2)

println("The square root of $a is $b.")
println("$a raised to the power of 2 is $c.")

}
```

> The **output** will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be:
```

```
The square root of 16.0 is 4.0.
16.0 raised to the power of 2 is 256.0.
```

# Float

> In Kotlin, the **Float** data type represents a 32-bit floating-point number. It is a primitive data type that can hold values with a fractional component, such as 3.14 or 0.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Float` data type represents a 32-bit floating-point number. It is a primitive data type that can hold values with a fractional component, such as 3.14 or 0.5.
```

This and the above should specify the difference in precision between a float and a double.

Here is an example of how to declare a Float variable in Kotlin:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Float = 3.14f
    val b: Float = 2.71f
    val c: Float = a * b as Float
    print(c)

}
```

> The **output** will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be :
```

```
8.5094
```
In this example, the c variable will be assigned the value 8.5014, which is the result of 3.14 * 2.71.

# Int

> In Kotlin, the **Int** data type represents a 32-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -2147483648 to 2147483647.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Int` data type represents a 32-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -2147483648 to 2147483647.
```

> Here is an example of how to declare an **Int** variable in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare an `Int` variable in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val a: Int = 50
    val b: Int = 25
    val c: Int = a + b
    print(c)
}
```

> The **output** of the above code will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of the above code will be:
```

```
75
```

# Long 

> In Kotlin, the **Long** data type represents a 64-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Long` data type represents a 64-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807.
```

> Here is an example of how to declare a **Long** variable in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare a `Long` variable in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val a: Long = 500000000
    val b: Long = 250000000
    val c: Long = a + b
    print(c)
}
```

> The **output** for the above code will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output for the above code will be :
```

```
750000000
```
In this example, the c variable will be assigned the value 750000000, which is the result of 500000000 + 250000000.

# Short

> In Kotlin, the **Short** data type represents a 16-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -32768 to 32767.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Short` data type represents a 16-bit signed integer. It is a primitive data type that can hold values ranging from -32768 to 32767.
```

> Here is an example of how to declare a **Short** variable in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare a `Short` variable in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val a: Short = 50
    val b: Short = 25
    val c: Short = (a + b).toShort()
    print(c)
}
```

> The **output** for the above code will be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output for the above code will be:
```

```
75
```

> In this example, the c variable will be assigned the value 75, which is the result of 50 + 25. The toShort() function is used to explicitly convert the result to a **Short** type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the c variable will be assigned the value 75, which is the result of 50 + 25. The `toShort()` function is used to explicitly convert the result to a `Short` type.
```

> ## Non-Primitive data type 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Non-Primitive Data Types 
```

> We will now discuss the non-primitive data types in kotlin :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are non-primitive data types in Kotlin :
```

-Arrays 
-String 
-Any
-Nothing 
-Unit 

# Arrays

> In Kotlin, an **array** is a data structure that stores a fixed-size collection of elements of the same data type. Arrays are non-primitive data types, which means they are derived from primitive data types or other non-primitive data types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, an `Array` is a data structure that stores a fixed-size collection of elements of the same data type. Arrays are non-primitive data types, which means they are derived from primitive data types or other non-primitive data types.
```

> To declare an **array** in Kotlin, you can use the arrayOf() function and specify the elements of the array within the parentheses. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To declare an `Array` in Kotlin, you can use the `arrayOf()` function and specify the elements of the array within the parentheses. For example:
```

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val numbers: Array<Int> = arrayOf(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
}
```

> In this example, the numbers variable is an array of integers that contains the values 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. The type of the array is specified using the Array<Int> syntax, which indicates that the array contains elements of the Int type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `numbers` variable is an array of integers that contains the values 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. The type of the array is specified using the `Array<Int>` syntax, which indicates that the array contains elements of the `Int` type.
```

> If you want to know how to print the array then you can check [Arrays](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/tree/main/content/kotlin/concepts/arrays/arrays.md) to learn further about Arrays.

Reviewer: This sentence is unnecessary and links to an article that may not be merged before this one.

Author: alright i will remove it 👍🏻

# String 

> In Kotlin, a **String** is a data type that represents a sequence of characters. You can use a string to store and manipulate text in your program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, a `String` is a data type that represents a sequence of characters. You can use a string to store and manipulate text in your program.
```

Here is an example of how to declare and initialize a string in Kotlin:

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val message: String = "Hello, World!"
    print(message)
}
```

> The **output** for the above code will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output for the above code will be :
```

```
Hello, World!
```

> String are also [immutable](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/native-immutability.html) in nature in Kotlin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strings are also [immutable](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/native-immutability.html) in Kotlin.
```

You can use the '+' operator to concatenate strings, or the trim() function to remove leading and trailing whitespace from a string. For example:

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    val greeting: String = "Hello, "
    val name: String = "John"
    val fullMessage: String = greeting + name
    println(fullMessage.trim()) 
}
```

> The **output** for the above code will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output for the above code will be :
```

```
Hello, John
```

# Any 

> In Kotlin, the Any type is a supertype of all types in the language. It represents a general type that can hold any value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Any` type is a supertype of all types in the language. It represents a general type that can hold any value.
```

> Here is an example of how to declare a variable of type Any in Kotlin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to declare a variable of type `Any` in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val value: Any = 100
    val value2: Any = "Hello, World!"
    println(value)
    println(value2)
}
```

> The **output** for the above code will be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output for the above code will be :
```

```
100
Hello, World!
```

> As you can see by using any data type we printed both Int and a String data type variables.I hope this helps! 

Reviewer: Remove this sentence.

Author: done

# Nothing

> In Kotlin, the **Nothing** type is a special type that represents the absence of a value. It is a subtype of all types in the language and cannot be instantiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Nothing` type is a special type that represents the absence of a value. It is a subtype of all types in the language and cannot be instantiated.
```

> The Nothing type is used to indicate that a function never returns a value. For example, a function that throws an exception or terminates the program will have a return type of Nothing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Nothing` type is used to indicate that a function never returns a value. For example, a function that throws an exception or terminates the program will have a return type of `Nothing`.
```

> Here is an example of a function that has a return type of Nothing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of a function that has a return type of `Nothing`:
```

```kotlin
fun error(): Nothing {
    throw IllegalStateException("An error occurred.")
}
```

> In the above, the error() function throws an exception and does not return a value. Therefore, its return type is Nothing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above, the `error()` function throws an exception and does not return a value. Therefore, its return type is `Nothing`.
```

# Unit 

> In Kotlin, the **Unit** type represents the absence of a value, similar to the void type in other programming languages. It is a special type that is used to indicate that a function does not return a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kotlin, the `Unit` type represents the absence of a value, similar to the `void` type in other programming languages. It is a special type that is used to indicate that a function does not return a value.
```

> You can use the Unit type to specify that a function has a return type of Unit when it is not possible to infer the return type from the function's body. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Unit` type can be used to specify that a function has a return type of `Unit` when it is not possible to infer the return type from the function's body. For example:
```

```kotlin 
fun main(){
    
}
fun doSomething(): Unit {
    // perform some action that you want to do
}
```

> In the above example, the doSomething() function performs an action and does not return a value. Therefore, its return type is Unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the doSomething() function performs an action and does not return a value. Therefore, its return type is `Unit`.
```

> - **This is all that you need to learn in data-types**

Reviewer: Delete this last sentence.
